.TH lsscsi "8" "June 2018" "lsscsi\-0.30" LSSCSI
.SH NAME
lsscsi \- list SCSI devices (or hosts), list NVMe devices
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lsscsi
[\fI\-\-brief\fR] [\fI\-\-classic\fR] [\fI\-\-controllers\fR]
[\fI\-\-device\fR] [\fI\-\-generic\fR] [\fI\-\-help\fR] [\fI\-\-hosts\fR]
[\fI\-\-kname\fR] [\fI\-\-list\fR] [\fI\-\-long\fR] [\fI\-\-long\-unit\fR]
[\fI\-\-lunhex\fR] [\fI\-\-no\-nvme\fR] [\fI\-\-pdt\fR] [\fI\-\-protection\fR]
[\fI\-\-protmode\fR] [\fI\-\-scsi_id\fR] [\fI\-\-size\fR]
[\fI\-\-sysfsroot=PATH\fR] [\fI\-\-sz\-lbs] [\fI\-\-transport\fR]
[\fI\-\-unit\fR] [\fI\-\-verbose\fR] [\fI\-\-version\fR] [\fI\-\-wwn\fR]
[\fIH:C:T:L\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" Add any additional description here
.PP
Uses information in sysfs (Linux kernel series 2.6 and later) to list SCSI
devices (or hosts) currently attached to the system. Many non\-SCSI storage
devices (but not all) used the SCSI subsystem in Linux. In lsscsi version
0.30 support was added to list NVMe devices.
.PP
In single line per device (LU or NVMe namespace) mode, the default, each
line starts with a 4 element tuple surrounded by square brackets. For SCSI
devices the first element 'H' is the host number, the second element 'C' is
the controller number, the third element 'T' is the target number and the
final element is the Logical Unit Number (LUN). All four are integers.
For NVMe namespaces see two paragraphs down. When the \fI\-\-hosts\fR option
is given for SCSI devices the tuple is reduced to one element: the host
number.
.PP
If a \fIH:C:T:L\fR tuple is given as an argument on the command line then
it acts as a filter and only devices that match it are listed. The colons
don't have to be present, and '\-', '*', '?' or missing components at the
end are interpreted as wildcards. The default is '*:*:*:*' which means to
match devices (i.e.  Logical Units). Any filter string using '*' of '?'
should be surrounded by single or double quotes to stop shell expansions.
If '\-' is used as a wildcard then the whole filter tuple should be prefixed
by '\-\- ' to tell this utility there are no more options on the command
line to be interpreted.  A leading '[' and trailing ']' are permitted (
e.g. '[1:0:0]' matches all LUNs on 1:0:0). May also be used to filter
\fI\-\-hosts\fR in which case only the \fIH\fR is active and may be either
a number or in the form "host<n>" where <n> is a host number.
.PP
For NVMe devices and controllers almost all of the previous paragraph
applies. The main difference is that "N" appears in the 'H' (first) position.
The 'C' position for NVMe is the controller's Linux generated "char" device
minor number which is the first number that appears in a typical NVMe
controller name, for example: "/dev/nvme2". The 'T' position for NVMe is
the "CNTLID" value. The final 'L' position is the NVMe namespace identifier
which is typically a sequential value starting at 1. The leading explicit "N"
for NVMe devices is converted internally into a large value (32,767) that
should not interfere with any Linux generated SCSI host number; it also means
that the numeric sort used to show hosts (controllers) and devices (LUs or
logical units) will always place NVMe devices and controllers after those
that use the SCSI subsystem. To filter using a \fIH:C:T:L\fR argument for
NVMe controllers, "hostN", "hostN:<num>", "N" or "N:<num>" may be used; when
no "<num>" is given, only NVMe controllers will be listed (i.e. it lists no
SCSI hosts (HBAs)).
.PP
By default in this utility device node names (e.g. "/dev/sda"
or "/dev/root_disk") are obtained by noting the major and minor numbers for
the listed device obtained from sysfs (e.g. the contents
of "/sys/block/sda/dev") and then looking for a match in the "/dev"
directory. This "match by major and minor" will allow devices that have been
given a different name by udev (for example) to be correctly reported by
this utility.
.PP
In some situations it may be useful to see the device node name that
Linux would produce by default, so the \fI\-\-kname\fR option is provided.
An example of where this may be useful is kernel error logs which tend to
report disk error messages using the disk's default kernel name.
.SH OPTIONS
Arguments to long options are mandatory for short options as well. The options
are arranged in alphabetical order based on the long option name. Hyphenated
long options can also take underscore, and vice versa (e.g. \fI\-\-scsi_id\fR
or \fI\-\-scsi\-id\fR are acceptable).
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-brief\fR
reduces one line per device output to the tuple and the primary device name.
This may simplify scripts that process the output of this utility. With the
\fI\-\-generic\fR option it will show on each line the tuple (from which
the bsg pass\-through device name can be deduced), the primary device
name (which the block subsystem uses) and the sg device name (also a
pass\-through).
.br
When the \fI\-\-pdt\fR option is used together with this option the SCSI
Peripheral Device Type (PDT) is displayed in hex (with a leading "0x")
between the tuple and the primary device name. For NVMe namespaces "0x0"
is displayed (for a disk or direct access device).
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-classic\fR
The output is similar to that obtained from 'cat /proc/scsi/scsi'
.TP
\fB\-C\fR, \fB\-\-controllers\fR
Lists NVMe controllers and SCSI hosts. This is a synonym for the
\fI\-\-hosts\fR option.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-device\fR
After outputting the (probable) SCSI device name the device node
major and minor numbers are shown in brackets (e.g. "/dev/sda[8:0]").
.TP
\fB\-g\fR, \fB\-\-generic\fR
Output the SCSI generic device file name. Note that if the sg driver
is a module it may need to be loaded otherwise '\-' may appear.
.br
NVMe does not have generic (char) devices in the same sense as SCSI.
Instead NVMe Admin, NVM (i.e. block type commands such as Read and
Write) and MI (Management Interface (e.g. to an enclosure)) commands
are all sent to the containing controller whose device name is shown
when the \fI\-\-hosts\fR option is used.
.br
To unclutter the single line per device mode the \fI\-\-brief\fR option
combined with this option should help.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Output the usage message and exit.
.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-hosts\fR
List the SCSI hosts and NVMe controllers currently attached to
the system. If this option is not given (and the \fI\-\-controllers\fR
option is not given) then SCSI devices (logical units (LUs)) followed by
NVMe devices (namespaces) are listed.
.TP
\fB\-k\fR, \fB\-\-kname\fR
Use Linux default algorithm for naming devices (e.g. block major 8,
minor 0 is "/dev/sda") rather than the "match by major and minor"
in the "/dev" directory as discussed above.
.TP
\fB\-L\fR, \fB\-\-list\fR
Output additional information in <attribute_name>=<value> pairs, one pair
per line preceded by two spaces. This option has the same effect as '\-lll'.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-long\fR
Output additional information for each SCSI device (host). Can be
used multiple times for more output in which case the shorter option
form is more convenient (e.g. '\-lll'). When used three times (i.e. '\-lll')
outputs SCSI device (host) attributes one per line; preceded by
two spaces; in the form "<attribute_name>=<value>".
.TP
\fB\-U\fR, \fB\-\-long\-unit\fR
Output logical unit name in full, if available. It replaces the normal
vendor, product and revision strings given in the single logical unit per
line mode. If no logical unit name is found "none" is printed. If the
logical unit name is long (e.g. a UUID) then following fields are pushed
further to the right as required. This option is functionally equivalent to
the '\-uuu' option.
.br
If the option is used twice (e.g. '\-UU') then EUI, NAA, UUID and T10 vendor
ID formats are prefixed by "eui.", "naa.", "uuid." and "t10." respectively.
Note that SCSI name format used by iSCSI should already be prefixed
by 'iqn.'. Using the '\-\-unit' option 4 or more times (e.g. '\-uuuu') will
have the same action as '\-UU'.
.br
\fI\-\-long_unit\fR is also an acceptable form when invoking this option.
.TP
\fB\-x\fR, \fB\-\-lunhex\fR
when this option is used once the LUN in the tuple (at the start of each
device line) is shown in "T10" format which is up to 16 hexadecimal
digits. It is prefixed by "0x" to distinguish the LUN from the decimal
value shown in the absence of this option. Also hierarchal LUNs are
shown with a "_" character separating the levels. For example the
two level LUN: 0x0355006600000000 will appear as 0x0355_0066. If this
option is given twice (e.g. using the short form: '\-xx') then the full
16 hexadecimal digits are shown for each LUN, prefixed by "0x".
.br
For NVMe, the namespace identifier (nsid) is shown in the "L" position. The
nsid is a 32 bit unsigned quantities with 0x0 and 0xffffffff reserved.
Without this option, the nsid is shown in decimal. When this option is used
once the nsid is output in hex with a lead 0x and with up to 3 leading zeros.
When this option is used twice the nsid is output in hex with up to 7 leading
zeros.
.TP
\fB\-N\fR, \fB\-\-no\-nvme\fR
this option excludes NVMe devices and controllers for the output. This option
may be needed to stop NVMe device output interfering with specific format
output like that produced when the \fI\-\-classic\fR option is used.
.br
To only show NVMe devices, use 'lsscsi N', to only show NVMe controllers,
use 'lsscsi \-H N'.
.TP
\fB\-D\fR, \fB\-\-pdt\fR
this option displays the SCSI Peripheral Device Type (PDT) in hex preceded
by "0x". For NVME namespaces "0x0' is displayed which corresponds to a
disk ("Direct Access Device" or SSD). In single line output this hex PDT
replaces the device type abbreviation (e.g. "0x0     " replaces "disk    ")
and appears after the tuple.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-protection\fR
Output target (DIF) and initiator (DIX) protection types.
.TP
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-protmode\fR
Output effective protection information mode for each disk device.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-scsi_id\fR
outputs the udev derived matching id found in /dev/disk/by\-id/scsi* .
This is only for disk (and disk like) devices. If no match is found
then "dm\-uuid\-mpath*" and "usb*" are searched in the same directory.
If there is still no match then the /sys/class/block/<disk>/holders
directory is searched. The matching id is printed following the device
name (e.g.  /dev/sdc) and if there is no match "\-" is output.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-size\fR
Print disk capacity in human readable form. When given once, normal base
10 SI units are used as a prefix for 'B' which is bytes (aka octets).
For example MB, GB and TB stand for 10^6, 10^9 and 10^12 bytes
respectively. When given twice, IEC 80000\-3 prefixes for 'B' are used;
for example MiB, GiB and TiB stand for 2^20, 2^30 and 2^40
bytes respectively. The output is rounded to 3 or less significant
figures in order to fit on a single line.
.br
If given three times (short form is the more convenient: '\-sss') then
the disk capacity as a logical block count is given. This is an exact
figure in decimal reported by the storage device at discovery. Discovery
is typically just after boot time, or when it was last attached if the
storage device is removable.
.br
To unclutter the single line per device mode the \fI\-\-brief\fR option
combined with this option should help.
.TP
\fB\-y\fR, \fB\-\-sysfsroot\fR=\fIPATH\fR
assumes sysfs is mounted at PATH instead of the default '/sys' . If this
option is given PATH should be an absolute path (i.e. start with '/').
.TP
\fB\-S\fR, \fB\-\-sz\-lbs\fR
Print disk capacity as a number of logical blocks (which is the same
as '\-sss'). When used twice a comma is added followed by the logical
block size in bytes. It should be a number like 512 or 4096.
.br
If the logical block size cannot be found (e.g. because the version of
Linux predates the /sys/block/<dev_name>/queue directory) then the number
of 512 byte blocks followed comma and then '512' is output irrespective of
what the true logical block size of the device is. This special case
action occurs whether this option is given one or more times.
.br
To unclutter the single line per device mode the \fI\-\-brief\fR option
combined with this option should help.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-transport\fR
Output transport information. This will be target related information or,
if \fI\-\-hosts\fR is given, initiator related information. When used without
\fI\-\-list\fR, a name or identifier (or both) are output on a single line,
usually prefixed by the type of transport. For devices this information
replaces the normal vendor, product and revision strings. When the
\fI\-\-list\fR option is also given then additionally multiple lines
of attribute_name=value pairs are output, each indented by two spaces. See
the section on transports below.
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-unit\fR
Output logical unit name, if available. If this option is given once or
twice, then the 30 character field where the vendor, product and revision
strings are usually placed is expanded to 32 characters and replaced by the
logical unit name. If no logical unit name is found "none" is printed.
The first found of the NAA, EUI\-64 or SCSI name string is output unless a
SCSI name string is found and the associated target port indicates the
iSCSI protocol, in which case the SCSI name string is preferred. Finally
if there is no match on the above and a T10 Vendor ID descriptor is found
then it is used.
.br
If the name cannot fit in the 32 character field then it is truncated to
the right and a trailing '_' character is used to alert the reader to the
truncation. The 32 character width is chosen since that is large enough to
hold 16 byte NAA or EUI\-64 identifiers. However SCSI name strings as used
by iSCSI can be larger than that.
.br
If this option is used twice then this field is also 32 character wide. If
the logical unit name cannot fit then it will be truncated to the left and
a leading '_' character is used to alert the reader to the truncation.
.br
If this option is used three times the whole logical unit name is
output, followed by several spaces.
.br
In order for this option to work, it needs a Linux kernel from and including
3.15 . It accesses the sysfs vpd_pg83 file for the device in question. Old
SCSI and ATA (SATA) equipment may not provide this information. If it is
provided by ATA (SATA) then it will be the WWN.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
outputs directory names where information is found. Use multiple times for
more output.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
outputs version information then exits. If used once outputs to stderr; if
used twice outputs to stdout and shortens the date to yyyymmdd numeric
format.
.TP
\fB\-w\fR, \fB\-\-wwn\fR
outputs the WWN for disks instead of manufacturer, model and revision (or
instead of transport information). The World Wide Name (WWN) is typically
64 bits long (16 hex digits) but could be up to 128 bits long. To indicate
the WWN is hexadecimal, it is prefixed by "0x". The ATA/SATA WWN is
referred to as LU name in SCSI jargon; hence this option is more or less
superseded by the \fI\-\-unit\fR and \fI\-\-long\-unit\fR options.
.SH TRANSPORTS
This utility lists SCSI devices which are known as logical units (LU) in
the SCSI Architecture Model (ref: SAM\-5 at http://www.t10.org) or hosts
when the \fI\-\-hosts\fR option is given. A host is called an initiator in
SAM\-5. A SCSI command travels out via an initiator, across some transport
to a target and then onwards to a logical unit. A target device may contain
several logical units. A target device has one or more ports that can be
viewed as transport end points. Each FC and SAS disk is a single target
that has two ports and contains one logical unit. If both target ports
on a FC or SAS disk are connected and visible to a machine, then lsscsi
will show two entries. Initiators (i.e. hosts) also have one or more ports
and some HBAs in Linux have a host entry per initiator port while others
have a host entry per initiator device.
.PP
When the \fI\-\-transport\fR option is given for devices (i.e.
\fI\-\-hosts\fR not given) then most of the information produced by lsscsi
is associated with the target, or more precisely: the target port, through
which SCSI commands pass that access a logical unit.
.PP
Typically this utility provides one line of output per "device" or host.
Significantly more information can be obtained by adding the \fI\-\-list\fR
option. When used together with the \fI\-\-transport\fR option, after
the summary line, multiple lines of transport specific information in the
form "<attribute_name>=<value>" are output, each indented by two spaces.
Using a filter argument will reduce the volume of output if a lot of
devices or hosts are present.
.PP
The transports that are currently recognized are: IEEE 1394, ATA, FC,
iSCSI, SAS, SATA, SPI, SRP and USB.
.PP
For IEEE 1394 (a.k.a. Firewire and "SBP" when storage is involved), the
EUI\-64 based target port name is output when \fI\-\-transport\fR is given,
in the absence of the \fI\-\-hosts\fR option. When the \fI\-\-hosts\fR
option is given then the EUI\-64 initiator port name is output. Output on
the summary line specific to the IEEE 1394 transport is prefixed by "sbp:".
.PP
To detect ATA and SATA devices a crude check is performed on the driver
name (after the checks for other transports are exhausted). Based on the
driver name either the ATA or SATA transport type is chosen. Output on
the summary line is either "ata:" or "sata:". A search is made for an
associated vpd_pg83 file in sysfs, if found it may contain the device's
WWN which is output if present. The WWN will not appear in Linux kernels
before 3.15 and with old PATA and SATA devices. Most device and hosts
flagged as "ata:" will use the parallel ATA transport (PATA). For SATA
devices that are attached via a SAS expander, see the SAS paragraph below.
.PP
For Fibre Channel (FC) the port name and port identifier are output
when \fI\-\-transport\fR is given. In the absence of the \fI\-\-hosts\fR
option these ids will be for the target port associated with the
device (logical unit) being listed. When the \fI\-\-hosts\fR option is
given then the ids are for the initiator port used by the host. Output
on the summary line specific to the FC transport is prefixed by "fc:".
If FCoE (over Ethernet) is detected the prefix is changed to "fcoe:".
.PP
For iSCSI the target port name is output when \fI\-\-transport\fR is given,
in the absence of the \fI\-\-hosts\fR option. This is made up of the
iSCSI name and the target portal group tag. Since the iSCSI name starts
with "iqn" no further prefix is used. When the \fI\-\-hosts\fR option
is given then only "iscsi:" is output on the summary line.
.PP
For Serial Attached SCSI the SAS address of the target port (or initiator
port if \fI\-\-hosts\fR option is also given) is output. This will be a naa\-5
address. For SAS HBAs and SAS targets (such as SAS disks and tape drives)
the SAS address will be world wide unique. For SATA disks attached to a
SAS expander, the expander provides the SAS address by adding a non zero
value to its (i.e. the expander's) SAS address (e.g. expander_sas_address +
phy_id + 1). SATA disks directly attached to SAS HBAs seem to have an
indeterminate SAS address. Output on the summary line specific to the SAS
transport is prefixed by "sas:".
.PP
For SATA devices, see the paragraph above on ATA devices. As noted in the
previous paragraph, SATA devices attached to SAS expanders will display a
manufactured SAS transport address (manufactured by the expander) rather
than the SATA device's WWN.
.PP
For the SCSI Parallel Interface (SPI) the target port identifier (usually
a number between 0 and 15 inclusive) is output when \fI\-\-transport\fR is
given, in the absence of the \fI\-\-hosts\fR option. When the \fI\-\-hosts\fR
option is given then only "spi:" is output on the summary line.
.PP
For the PCIe transport (a.k.a. PCI Express) there at two possible storage
types: NVMe and SOP/PQI (SCSI over PCIe). There are very few examples of the
latter currently so this utility concentrates on NVMe. NVMe uses its own
command set and not SCSI but has many things in common. Rather than
re\-invent everything currently in use that SCSI has accumulated over nearly
40 years, NVMe is beginning to use some parts of SCSI. A recent example is
the SES\-3 standard for enclosure management which has been adopted by NVMe.
In SCSI a SES device is a logical unit with a peripheral device type (PDT)
of 0xd (for enclosure) so it will appear when the lsscsi utility is invoked
without any options. In NVMe is seems that an enclosure with appear as
attached to the management interface (MI) of a NVMe controller. This means
it should appear when "lsscsi \-\-hosts" is invoked. It is unclear whether
such a NVMe controller can have any storage namespaces associated with
it. The sg_ses utility (in the sg3_utils package) can then be given that NVMe
controller's device name (e.g. /dev/nmve1).
.br
When the \fI\-\-transport\fR option is given, after "pcie" the NVMe
controller's subsystem vendor id and device id are output, separated by a
colon (e.g. "pcie 0x8086:0x390a").
.PP
For the SCSI RDMA Protocol (SRP) the IB (InfiniBand) port's GUID is given.
As an example, it has a form like this: 0002:c903:00fa:abcd .
.PP
When a USB transport is detected, the summary line will contain "usb:"
followed by a USB device name. The USB device name has the
form "<b>\-<p1>[.<p2>[.<p3>]]:<c>.<i>" where <b> is the USB bus number, <p1>
is the port on the host. <p2> is a port on a host connected hub, if present.
If needed <p3> is a USB hub port closer to the USB storage device. <c>
refers to the configuration number while <i> is the interface number. There
is a separate SCSI host for each USB (SCSI) target. A USB SCSI target may
contain multiple logical units. Thus the same "usb: <device_name>" string
appears for a USB SCSI host and all logical units that belong to the USB
SCSI target associated with that USB SCSI host.
.SH LUNS
For historical reasons and as used by several other Unix based Operating
Systems, Linux uses a tuple of integers to describe (a path to) a SCSI
device (also know as a Logical Unit (LU)). The last element of that tuple
is the so\-called Logical Unit Number (LUN). And originally in SCSI a
LUN was an integer, at first 3 bits long, then 8 then 16 bits. SCSI LUNs
today (SAM\-5 section 4.7) are 64 bits but SCSI standards now consider
a LUN to be an array of 8 bytes.
.PP
Up until 2013, Linux mapped SCSI LUNs to a 32 bit integer by taking the
first 4 bytes of the SCSI LUN and ignoring the last 4 bytes. Linux treated
the first two bytes of the SCSI LUN as a unit (a word) and it became the
least significant 16 bits in the Linux LUN integer. The next two bytes of
the SCSI LUN became the upper 16 bits in the Linux LUN integer. The rationale
for this was to keep commonly used LUNs small Linux LUN integers. The most
common LUN (by far) in SCSI LUN (hex) notation is 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00
and this becomes the Linux LUN integer 0. The next most common LUN is
00 01 00 00 00 00 00 00 and this becomes the Linux LUN integer 1.
.PP
In 2013 it is proposed to increase Linux LUNs to a 64 bit integer by extending
the mapping outlined above. In this case all information that is possible
to represent in a SCSI LUN is mapped a Linux LUN (64 bit) integer. And the
mapping can be reversed without losing information.
.PP
This version of the utility supports both 32 and 64 bit Linux LUN integers.
By default the LUN shown at the end of the tuple commencing each line is
a Linux LUN as a decimal integer. When the \fI\-\-lunhex\fR option is given
then the LUN is in SCSI LUN format with the 8 bytes run together, with the
output in hexadecimal and prefixed by '0x'. The LUN is decoded according
to SAM\-5's description and trailing zeros (i.e. digits to the right) are not
shown. So LUN 0 (i.e. 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00) is shown as 0x0000 and
LUN 65 (i.e. 00 41 00 00 00 00 00 00) is shown as 0x0041.
If the \fI\-\-lunhex\fR option is given twice then the full 64 bits (i.e. 16
hexadecimal digits) are shown.
.PP
If the \fI\-\-lunhex\fR option is not given on the command line then the
environment variable LSSCSI_LUNHEX_OPT is checked. If LSSCSI_LUNHEX_OPT is
present then its associated value becomes the number of times the
\fI\-\-lunhex\fR is set internally. So, for
example, 'LSSCSI_LUNHEX_OPT=2  lsscsi' and 'lsscsi \-xx' are equivalent.
.SH EXAMPLES
Information about this utility including examples can also be found at:
http://sg.danny.cz/scsi/lsscsi.html .
.SH NOTES
Information for this command is derived from the sysfs file system,
which is assumed to be mounted at /sys unless specified otherwise
by the user.
SCSI (pseudo) devices that have been detected by the SCSI mid level
will be listed even if the required upper level drivers (i.e. sd, sr,
st, osst or ch) have not been loaded. If the appropriate upper level
driver has not been loaded then the device file name will appear
as '\-' rather than something like '/dev/st0'. Note that some
devices (e.g. scanners and medium changers) do not have a primary upper
level driver and can only be accessed via a SCSI generic (sg) device
name.
.PP
Generic SCSI devices can also be accessed via the bsg driver in Linux.
By default, the bsg driver's device node names are of the
form '/dev/bsg/\fIH:C:T:L\fR'. So, for example, the SCSI device shown
by this utility on a line starting with the tuple '6:0:1:2' could be
accessed via the bsg driver with the '/dev/bsg/6:0:1:2' device node
name.
.PP
lsscsi version 0.21 or later is required to correctly display SCSI devices
in Linux kernel 2.6.26 (and possibly later) when the
CONFIG_SYSFS_DEPRECATED_V2 kernel option is not defined.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Doug Gilbert
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <dgilbert at interlog dot com>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2003\-2018 Douglas Gilbert
.br
This software is distributed under the GPL version 2. There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B lspci
.B lsusb
.B lsblk
